# Functions

## getType()

```solidity
<address>.getType() returns (uint8);
```

Returns type of the `address`: 0 - **addr\_none** 1 - **addr\_extern** 2 - **addr\_std**

## isStdZero()

```solidity
<address>.isStdZero() returns (bool);
```

Returns the result of comparison between this `address` with zero `address` of type **addr\_std**.

## isStdAddrWithoutAnyCast()

```solidity
<address>.isStdAddrWithoutAnyCast() returns (bool);
```

Checks whether this `address` is of type **addr\_std** without any cast.

## isExternZero()

```solidity
<address>.isExternZero() returns (bool);
```

Returns the result of comparison between this `address` with zero `address` of type **addr\_extern**.

## isNone()

```solidity
<address>.isNone() returns (bool);
```

Checks whether this `address` is of type **addr\_none**.

## unpack()

```solidity
<address>.unpack() returns (int8 /*wid*/, uint256 /*value*/);
```

Parses `address` containing a valid `MsgAddressInt` (`addr_std`), applies rewriting from the anycast (if present) to the same-length prefix of the address, and returns both the workchain `wid` and the 256-bit address `value`. If the address `value` is not 256-bit, or if `address` is not a valid serialization of `MsgAddressInt`, throws a cell deserialization [exception](../../troubleshooting/tvm-exception-codes.md).

It's wrapper for opcode `REWRITESTDADDR`.

Example:

```solidity
(int8 wid, uint addr) = address(this).unpack();
```

## transfer()

```solidity
<address>.transfer(uint128 value, bool bounce, uint16 flag, TvmCell body, ExtraCurrencyCollection currencies, TvmCell stateInit);
```

Sends an internal outbound message to the `address`. Function parameters:

* `value` (`uint128`) - amount of nanotons sent attached to the message. Note: the sent value is withdrawn from the contract's balance even if the contract has been called by internal inbound message.
* `currencies` (`ExtraCurrencyCollection`) - additional currencies attached to the message. Defaults to an empty set.
* `bounce` (`bool`) - if it's set and transaction (generated by the internal outbound message) falls (only at the computing phase, not at the action phase!) then funds will be returned. Otherwise, (flag isn't set or transaction terminated successfully) the address accepts the funds even if the account doesn't exist or is frozen. Defaults to `true`.
* `flag` (`uint16`) - flag that used to send the internal outbound message. Defaults to `0`.
* `body` (`TvmCell`) - body (payload) attached to the internal message. Defaults to an empty TvmCell.
* `stateInit` (`TvmCell`) - represents field `init` of `Message X`. If `stateInit` has a wrong format, a cell underflow [exception](../../troubleshooting/tvm-exception-codes.md) at the computing phase is thrown. See [here](https://github.com/ton-blockchain/ton/blob/master/crypto/block/block.tlb#L148). Normally, `stateInit` is used in 2 cases: to deploy the contract or to unfreeze the contract.

All parameters can be omitted, except `value`.

Possible values of parameter `flag`:

* `0` - message carries funds equal to the `value` parameter. Forward fee is subtracted from the `value`.
* `128` - message carries all the remaining balance of the current smart contract. Parameter `value` is ignored. The contract's balance will be equal to zero after the message processing.
* `64` - carries funds equal to the `value` parameter plus all the remaining value of the inbound message (that initiated the contract execution).

Parameter `flag` can also be modified:

* `flag + 1` - means that the sender wants to pay transfer fees separately from contract's balance.
* `flag + 2` - means that any errors arising while processing this message during the action phase should be ignored. But if the message has wrong format, then the transaction fails and `+ 2` has no effect.
* `flag + 32` - means that the current account must be destroyed if its resulting balance is zero. For example, `flag: 128 + 32` is used to send all balance and destroy the contract.

In order to clarify flags usage see [this sample](https://github.com/tonlabs/samples/blob/master/solidity/20\_bomber.sol).

```solidity
address dest = ...;
uint128 value = ...;
bool bounce = ...;
uint16 flag = ...;
TvmCell body = ...;
ExtraCurrencyCollection c = ...;
TvmCell stateInit = ...;
// sequential order of parameters
addr.transfer(value);
addr.transfer(value, bounce);
addr.transfer(value, bounce, flag);
addr.transfer(value, bounce, flag, body);
addr.transfer(value, bounce, flag, body, c);
// using named parameters
destination.transfer({value: 1 ton, bounce: false, flag: 128, body: cell, currencies: c});
destination.transfer({bounce: false, value: 1 ton, flag: 128, body: cell});
destination.transfer({value: 1 ton, bounce: false, stateInit: stateInit});
```

See example of `address.transfer()` usage:

* [giver](https://github.com/tonlabs/samples/blob/master/solidity/7\_Giver.sol)
